hey michael hello hello uh it's great to be here again
and i'm always good ready to kick it off let's kick it hello and welcome to python
bytes where we deliver python news and headlines directly to your earbuds this is episode 419
recorded february 4th 2025 and i am brian auken and i'm michael kennedy and this episode is
sponsored by us check out our courses um at either python test.com or talk python.com no wait
that's right isn't it talk python.com will work yeah that's right um also thank you to our patreon
supporters we don't thank them very much but uh they do help um help with the show so thanks
if you'd like to connect with the show please uh hop on blue sky or mastodon and uh the links to both
michael and myself and the show are in the show notes um and if you'd like to join us live it's
tuesday today but normally it's monday normally monday at 10 at pacific time um go to pythonbytes.fm
slash live and finally we are getting some great feedback about our um updated beefier show notes
with uh deep dives so we um in the email list so if you'd like to get um a uh some background around
um all the topics we cover and a little more info than what we um have in the show notes uh join the
newsletter just go to pythonbytes.fm and it's really easy to figure out so definitely is how about
check it out um and there's a lot of great content there uh and uh you're gonna it's it's a email
type content that i was trying to go into the first topic there we'll get there we'll get there so yeah
if you're gonna attach something maybe we'd have a mime type like a graphic or zip file or something
so last week this is like groundhog day mime types mime type.io remember i talked about that
well i got some nice feedback from folks including rave guns who said hey you mentioned mime type.io that
reminds me of something that happened just last week i need to map file names to this and i thought surely
someone's already done this and it turns out that the standard library already has a built-in
mime types and you can ask it hey what is given this file name what do you think its extension is
okay so even better right yeah well well well no not so fast this sent me down such a rabbit hole okay
so there are weird things that this mime types library does like there's not that many and especially for the common ones
they it's a list of like 100 or something you know but if you look at the implementation in c python for
mime types what it does is it looks at a set of files that come with each different operating system
raspberry pi ubuntu mac os windows 7 whatever it it doesn't have a single built-in
mime type like it won't tell you what they are it doesn't know what text.txt is it doesn't know what
html is it just looks at these files which is really weird to me because that means you get different
answers for mime types based on your operating system like docker might if you run Linux in a docker
container it might give you different output than say desktop Linux and stuff real just thinking you know for
like 30 seconds around this it seems like maybe you should build in all the known ones
and then if it overrides it like something special about the machine configuration says this mime type is something different maybe
consider overriding it with a local file definition but just omitting them all very weird
plus it'll tell you things that are wrong like that xml should be text xml not application xml
okay so that sent me looking i'm like well that's not great surely there's some on then on pypi so i
looked at for like python magic and python magic is awesome what it does is you give it a file it's
based on lib magic or some kind of c library or something so you got to install that with brew which
is kind of weird but okay fine so you got that and then what it does is you say hey given this
uh this file like this pdf tell me what kind it is and it says hey this is application.pdf but the way it
knows this is it goes and it actually reads the the file right it doesn't just look at the extension it
goes ah you said it's a .jpeg but when i looked at it i inspected the binary header for the image and it looks like it's a
a png so we're going to tell you it's png super helpful when you're talking about the file system
super duper unhelpful when you're building web applications you know like when you need to
specify the mime type because what if your image lives in s3 storage how are you going to ask what
i should return if i want to link just redirect someone to it we've got to download it from s3 feed it to
the thing yeah throw away the temporary file and send it back and all these other ones they all
look at the files like if you don't look at the file how are you going to know it's like okay if you
want to be super thorough yes but what if the files in a database the files in like remote storage like
you don't want to go get the file you want your best guess right so brian this has led me to create
github.com/mixykennedy/content-types available on pypi as content types
so it does exactly what you would think it tells you given an extension what is the mime types
it even includes a cli so you can say like after uv tool install it you can just say type content
types anywhere in your terminal give it any form of file name and it will tell you what comes out
that's kind of handy so if you're curious it has way more content types than the mime types and they're
correct so that's always good we'll talk about that in a second uh but you say content types get
content type you give it some kind of file name as long as it has an extension it doesn't matter if it's
a https to some file or it's just a file path on your hard drive if it has an extension
we'll be able to tell you what its mime type is so is this just a like a big lookup of extension to
type pretty much yeah it's like a massive massive lookup of those things but the thing is gathering
them all up right so for example if you look at the built-in mine types like well why don't you just
have mime types and use that one it varies but two it's wrong about things like if you ask mdn
mozilla developer networks what dot xml should be it says it's application dot xml it used to be this older
text xml it's not anymore but the built-in um python one says it's the old style it's also missing things
like tgz and gz zip and flack and epub and all these types you would expect so anyway i didn't spend that
long i spent a few hours building this thing but i'm like there i fixed it it doesn't depend on the
operating system it doesn't have to read the file you don't have to download it from s3 storage to
tell you what it is it just it just given a file name it'll tell you what the content type is or mime
type somebody asked why don't you name it mime types i'm like i don't know really how to import
something that overrides a built-in as a third-party package and make that useful experience you know what
i mean so yeah anyway that's what it's called so hopefully this helps people it's built in python it has
something like 180 different types and it has 31 types that are not known to um the built-in library
and common stuff like i said like um fonts or m4a's audio files or web a's for other audio files or w
a lot of stuff right rars ttf seems like you should know what that is anyway i present to the world this
project i worked on over the weekend nice i like it yeah thanks always threw me the m4a's were audio mp4s
yeah i know it's m4a it's not anyway um but since i you i work with audio uh as well so hey um uh
good job i think and uh let's talk about jango a little bit so um white tail like tail 6.4 is here
uh in there's an announcement enjoy a smoother content experience with white tail 6.4 i don't
actually use white tail 6.4 but all right or white tail but um but uh but i play one on tv no um but
there's it's i'm glad white tails here uh it's a it's a really cool platform uh content management
system built on top of django why am i bringing this up um it's it's great that they've got a release and
there's some cool stuff but the thing that i really am excited about is if we go down it says it's this
version uh incorporates django tasks library and that's the cool that's a cool bit according to me
um so the django task library and there's a release notes too that we'll link to it also is pretty
excited about the django tests so what are django tasks um let's see oh yeah oh by the way some of the
cool things about um about white tail it's used by nasa and google and nhs and some of those are still
operating uh so um django tasks is a is a it if we look at it it says it's a backport but it's
it's really the it's really the implementation that you can play with right now of a thing uh defined
in dep 14 and uh that's a django enhancement proposal for background workers and this is accepted
and one of the things whether you love or hate it uh django enhancement proposals don't happen quickly
partly it's because we really they they do lts support and they really don't want to break things
in the end and they just don't happen fast but that's okay um we love you django uh but the so django
tasks is background workers um around um yeah but just background workers so like you're not in the normal
loop um there's a cool i was following this rabbit hole and there's this cool um on the
django tasks uh forum bringing background workers into django core um there's a talk um that was given
at django con europe 2024 and this is a great talk listen to this talking about how uh really the the normal
the cycle of a web page of like you do a request and a response that doesn't work for a lot of stuff
and you need background tasks um and other tasks to run at different times or even just later like
you know you don't have to wait we'll work on it um uh so that's cool so and so now the the
implementation of this is being done um in j the django test application and you can use it and the
since um since um since whitetail is using it i think it's pretty stable and i think people should
feel free to to to use it and provide feedback if you run into any issues so they're really ramping up
trying to get this um get all the kinks out so pretty cool yeah that's really cool i think a lot of
times people overthink how much infrastructure you need to say run something in the background like
oh this thing takes five seconds and if we do it on the view call then it's going to slow down the
website a whole bunch so let's set up celery and redis and a queue and like whoa it was running all on
its own until just a second ago and things like this where it's kind of just a background thread like
okay well we just kick it to the thread and maybe you want to log it to a database or
send an email but you're going to take a second so just let that happen
yeah it's great and also uh for people that are thinking about using this django tasks project to
to put um put something in place um i think that's where i would lean if uh partly because
that's where you know uh django eventually is going but also um you've got whitetail as an open source
project you can look to see how they're doing it so you can look to see other projects implemented yeah
excellent excellent excellent excellent and by the way brian are you familiar with all the wordpress
drama have you been tracking this yeah oh it's so insane people if you haven't been tracking this
wordpress has gone off the rails so maybe if you're out looking for i don't know a different cms instead
of wordpress wagtail check it out less drama less drama or if you didn't want to do that you could build it
yourself right just build it definitely so there's a really nice article from armin roniker and he's
doing a lot of great writing lately so i'm really really enjoying it basically this is something of a
a rant and a call to arms if you will to depend less depend less saying look there's there's a lot of
pressure and encouragement to say if there's anything that you can use as a third party dependency
rather than building it into your own code do that that's how you stay agile unless it's not unless it
just becomes a drag you know if you have one function that you need and there's some library that has a
100 functions and it does a whole bunch of stuff but it has that one thing you need you could depend
upon it but then what if you want to go to python 3 14 and it doesn't upgrade in time and you're stuck
right and you know one library that's one thing but then you multiply that times 100 and it gets real
complicated real quick so he pulls out an example and says look what about terminal size this is mostly
speaking in rust terms but it it equally applies to python so that's why i'm covering it says
terminal size is a package that you can use and it tells you the size of the terminal like 8 80 by 25 or
47 by 100 or whatever the rows columns of the terminal is it tells you that right well that thing has been
pretty much unchanged for a long long time but it's had 26 releases because the stuff that it depends upon
has been churning and has to be you've got to you know use the newer dependency of this library so that
your thing will build on the new version of the runtime right instead of just being basic right
why you know if terminal itself terminal size itself hasn't changed why do you have to keep rebuilding it
re-releasing it he has a funny term but big supply chain will tell you you must do it this way big
supply chain yeah exactly it's like big tobacco big supply chain and as well as open source people
right they're like oh you know why are you putting this in here you could just use this library and this
this pull requests or similarly for code reviews at enterprise places and there's one quote i want to read
to you all about it and then kind of leave it there it says it's time to have a new perspective we should
give kudos to engineers who write a small function themselves instead of hooking in a transitive web of
packages we should be suspicious of big dependency graphs celebrate celebrated are the minimal
dependencies the humble function that just quietly does the job and the code doesn't need to be touched
for years because it was done right what do you think brian um all right i i take issue with this okay
okay the the i get the i get the idea and i i agree with um for some things like something like terminal
size i don't know how to determine a terminal size but i i imagine that i would probably pull in a library
or something to do that but i wouldn't expect that it would have to pull in a lot of stuff yeah um
uh so if like i really you know there's a lot of like um there's a lot of stuff i depend on because
i don't want to figure it out um but i also don't really want those things to be too deep you know for
instance um but that's all that and that that's the that's the trade-off you you either either you know
so what's the problem so what's the problem writing yourself is because you don't you're not if you're
not the expert in this field why would you think you got it right um and i wouldn't necessarily think
it was right just because there's a package for it but uh i know i'm not an expert at it so that's why
i grabbed a package and also i don't want to think about like security problems and other things in the future
if there's a issue with uh with certain packages like like why do people use stuff like redis i'm
sure you could just write a caching system on your own um there's reasons why we use these packages but
yeah yeah and to be fair armin says look it's not black and white they're important libraries that
solve hard problems like web web frameworks and graphics libraries and things like that right
but i think it's more like left pad yeah do we really need a library with three dependencies to
just pad a string probably not i don't think we do that that much in python though or maybe we do not
as much not as much but i'll give you an example like so i started working with postmark i'm trying
to move away from send grid it's not going as good as it could i suppose so i'm like oh postmark
awesome this is you know similarly priced seems to be pretty reputable they really cracked down on
spammers which is the problem with um singred from what i can tell at least my personal experience
so it says okay look if you want to use it there's official libraries just go over here and grab one like
boom there's a rails gem there's a dot net postmark library there's a java one there's a php one there's
a craft what the heck is craft but anyway there's one of them uh there's a node.js one there's a cli one
there's one for wordpress there's one for grunt one for zapier the most popular programming language
in the world is missing but you know i don't know whatever it is whatever so probably pi pi probably pi pi has
one right postmark email sure that's cool uh okay so there's this one called postmark is the top one
updated 2017. 2017. it has a single sentence no documentation if i go to it i guess i could
download it uh let's see let me try another one so what about this post marker one um what versions of
python oh this is actually pretty this works pretty well uh but you start looking through these and a
lot of them are like oh man i don't know it's it's okay like here's one something for in django from 2011
one from flash from 2020 right but i wanted one for court right async it doesn't really matter it's
courted i want one that supports async yeah okay here we go again so i could try to work with one of
those libraries and go hey guys can we think about adding an async api to this or you go to chat cpt pro
say do you know what the postmark live uh api is yes create me one that does async and await an async
io based one that uses http x for its implementation bam you got it it works fine you can stick that in your
code off the race as you go right i don't have to worry about whether their library supports python 3
14 when it comes out or not and there's no security things because it's just me and postmark having a
little chat and things like that so i think and i'm not saying like don't use packages don't contribute
packages i mean literally i opened the show with like here's my new package but yeah i i think there
are also it's easier than ever these days to go i need one function that does this thing
i like call this one api point like give me that function boom here it is so i don't know i think
there's there's some balance to be had yeah also um good api docs uh like it might be that postmark
just has pretty decent api docs and you could just build it yourself anyway or that i was gonna i was
gonna build up myself and then i'm like well let me ask chat yeah sure and see if it gets it close and
now i'll tweak it if needed i'm like no it got it exactly right well that's cool it even it even made
the client not just use httpx but it even made the async client an async context manager so i can say
async with postmark client off it goes i mean it's sweet yeah i what i hope i hope that uh people like
postmark and other services that have apis that we're using i hope they keep the documentation
good and not think that people are just going to use ai to generate the stuff anyway so you don't need
the documentation we still need the documentation because sometimes it's wrong or we have bugs or
something has to be debugged so yeah yeah and by the way if there was an official python one that had
async support i would have more than gladly used it i didn't want to create my own it just doesn't exist
right and so maybe we could turn this around a little bit and say if you're out there listening
and you work for a company like postmark that has an api and you're like well it's too much to create
an api uh client in python i bet it's not if you asked yeah yeah yeah but then you have people in
the house to to review it and say yeah that's probably what we want let's right then open source
it and people can like contribute to it and yeah but but that i think the zero to one like oh we're not going to create it for this
for this we'll just give people the docs and let them rewrite it like a million times across all the
developers i don't think that makes as much sense as it used to because it's not that hard to create
one these days yeah yeah agreed cool yeah anyway thanks armin for the cool article i'm i'm extra less
i'm without extras but i know you're not um well i want to we have another another uh topic oh yeah
that's right we do before we get to your extras how about we do your main topic yeah
i forgot it's an odd one let's go well so we were talking about like building packages though i'm just
curious um uh what back end build back end you used um do you use setup tools or hatch or actually i use
hatchling okay for the build back end i'm on pyproject.tomal and i use uv build uv publish as the workflow
okay okay okay cool um i haven't done the uv uh i've done uv build but i haven't done the publish
bit before yeah um however so pyproject.tomal we've been following it on um uh the rise of
pyproject.tomal on the show um and this uh there's a there's this i'm cracking up the there's a blog uh
from bastion vent venter venter sorry bastion um it the title of the blog is still don't have a title
which is an awesome title for a blog um just saying uh he did this investigation both last year and this
year and uh it's about how with the popularity of build back ends for projects using pyproject.tomal
so this is the second second version um kind of a fun just little data set uh there's he actually
uses data set nice um but the results are interesting uh i think i'm going to pull up from
last year and this year so we get the same graph uh okay so last year we had uh setup tools uh was
definitely in the lead uh poetry next hatchling and then uh flit um and then other was about the same
as flit maybe a little bit bigger and then this year looking at the graph again uh setup tools poetry but
there's uh not as much growth in poetry uh hatchling is growing a lot more now and then i think that's a
a good job with that one flits down and um and then the other is actually bigger than flit i don't know
what all the others are um but anyway the uh what takeaway there's some and then there's some the plot
shows a relative distribute distribution over the quarters and you can really see there that hatchling is
really growing and uh and um flits actually on the decline um looks like looks like poetry is kind of
on the decline as well a little bit um i think i would see i think there's just a lot more projects
now um but but i think hatchling is sort of taking some lead i in this isn't really that
surprising to me because i i uh i think that um setup would a big decline in setup tools for a while was
because flit and hatchling were working so much better but setup tools had some updates with uh being able to
to use it with uh pipe project.toml better and um and those updates i think have improved things
so i use both now i'm using hatchling for some projects especially when i want fine control but if
it's really just a really simple thing um especially if i'm doing it in a corporate setting i'll probably
use setup tools because it's um i don't know it's more it's more mainstream people know about it more i don't have to explain anything
so uh just interesting looking at the the trends for for uh backends so yeah that's interesting i wonder
what the you know the sort of the default behavior for different projects you know if there's certain
projects that will create like popular cookie cutter templates or other things oh yeah that make an outsized
impact on this i'm not sure nothing comes to mind but there could be something like oh this thing would
be way lower except for it's used this it's used in this project that's used by so many people or something
yeah that would be interesting to know um what is when you say like i can't remember
oh uv has its own right so if you say um is does uva have its own build back in instead of
not that i know of i for the it just will build any pyproject.toml using the specified build back
in as far as i know so for mine i put hatchling in my pyproject.toml then i just say uv build and
it it does it i think yeah i'm just like you uv has a uv in it so you can initialize that pyproject.toml
i was i'm curious what back end it's oh i have no idea i have to have to play with you do your extras and
i'll tell you the answer okay um i'll go to the i've got a couple extras um first off i'll jump
ahead uh so one of the things that we've got with python bytes and i think uh i think you do this with
um talk python to me as well is there's a episodes page that lists all the episodes i mean there's it's
one line each so why not just list them all um so if you're curious about an old episode you can take
it take a look uh test i wanted this for testing code so testing code used to be uh something like
this if you go to all episodes it'll show the the title of the episode and the information um and then
you see 30 of them and then if you want to see more you go to the next page but i've got 225 episodes uh
still um why um you have to that's a lot of clicking to go through all of them so the the update i've got
is that i um i'm i'm handwriting this but it's not that hard um i've got an archive page now that has
all episodes so you can see all those of testing code um they're reverse ordered uh i and i i think that's
right for season one because there's a lot here um but for season one was long yeah i know nine years
uh 223 episodes yeah whatever um time for season two and uh it'll probably be shorter than nine years
for season two we'll see probably but i might reverse these and have them one two three instead of three
two one or whatever we'll see anyway uh that's my first extra the second extra is something completely
different has nothing to do with uh with python i just came across this thing called name grapher and um
uh and i think it's it's around about like u.s names and uh because i was curious why we did where there
weren't any bryans around anymore but the peak of brian was 1970 um and i looked at michael also um
michael's been popular i got a little broader distribution but still extremely 70s kids but it
was it was the number one uh name in the uh 60s 90 60s 70s in the 80s and 90s i think or something like
that it's been number one for a long time so yeah you're popular there's a lot of
my my wife always jokes at her she yells my name in a supermarket like three guys will turn around
yeah uh anyway uh it's it's kind of fun to look up look up some names anyway that's interesting to
apply to yourself and if you're going to have a kid you you can think about you can put your
considered names into there and see what you get yeah we thought we were being clever with uh with a name
and it was not clever hey i you know i think the reason like if you look at your daughter's name it
was spiked right around her her age right when she was born yeah but i imagine that parents we think of
like other parents that we know to a large degree right when you're having your a younger kid you're like
okay well i don't know a lot of people such and such names so that must be kind of unique i'll do that but it's
it's unique for your generation but not for the coming one or something right exactly so you got to look for some something that's unique for both so like
my recommendation for a girl's name esther like no esters around or the well there's some but not very many
um and it may be featured in a jane uh jane austen novel given that it's like popular in the 1800s
okay there you go ethel there's not gonna be any other ethels at this school yeah the long tail of ethel is
thin okay um do you have anything extras for us nothing other than real-time follow-up so here's what i got for
you i did a quick uh uv init and i got a very simple thing that uh pipe project.tomwell that just says
a readme it requires python 313 and empty dependencies and so i added requests uv add and then it added um
that made it added a version that's funky anyway it added a version because of that oh nice it added uh
the dependencies to just add requests or whatever but it does not specify a build backend
weird because maybe you're not going to publish it maybe it's just i don't know right yeah right
maybe it's just for you just want a little local package like a mono repo sort of deal i don't know
yeah also you can i think you can just push those up anyway uh i wonder what happened
anyway this is what i found this is what i've discovered by using the latest nearly latest uv
yeah i'm having fun with uv so yeah me too definitely definitely you want us to fun a joke
yeah let's do a joke all right this one celebrates in quotes getting a job or not getting a job and it's
entitled the long path to rejection in parentheses for software developers so for a normal person this might
be really short send a cv get rejected and it has this uh this graphic of stepping on a rake
whack it you know the face like do and then for the software engineer you got to do more it shows
them like kind of this is free brian like kind of grinding the rail on a rake instead of a skateboard
send us a cv interview with hr interview with the developers technical interview whack get rejected
this is great he's doing a kickflip ollie down the stairs with a rake so and then gets rejected
think that would be enough wouldn't you yeah but somehow somehow it is not yeah i never mastered the
kickflip ollie but i did master uh trying the kickflip ollie and falling down and getting lots of blood from that
i i mastered the amazing back landing when you go on the skateboard whoop and it shoots out in front
where you just land flat on your back like oh yeah not there yourself uh last last thought of the show
christian letterman says the default is set of tools for type project tunnel which you know defaults are
powerful in terms of keeping people doing it yeah that might be the 50 maintain maintainings people and you
you know to be honest since uv came around i don't really think about back ends much anymore um
i just kind of use uv yeah yeah all right and marco out there says maybe this is a podcast you could
start instead of testing code skating code brian skating code yeah skater go and code
skater ship all right all right cool bye bye